SAG-AFTRA, the union representing more than 150,000 film and TV performers, announced a deal Tuesday that sets terms for the use of artificial intelligence voices in video games.

The deal with Replica Studios, an AI voice technology company, establishes protections around the licensing of digitally replicated voices, the union said in a news release. The deal was announced at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.

The deal sets minimum terms and conditions and requires the company to obtain consent before it uses replicated voices, while also enabling performers to decline the continuous use of their voices in future projects. Replica, which says it aims to build “the world’s greatest library of AI-powered voice actors,” would be able to license AI voices for video game development and other media projects.

Ever since it entered the mainstream in 2022, generative AI has been top of mind for industries across the board — including in entertainment and other creative spaces.

SAG-AFTRA’s new contract with the major film and TV studios, ratified last month, also requires producers to obtain actors’ consent and pay them to replicate their likenesses with AI. In September, video game voice actors and motion capture performers voted to authorize a strike if negotiations on a new labor contract failed.

Duncan Crabtree-Ireland, SAG-AFTRA’s national executive director, told NBC News he believes that the agreement with Replica will help bolster trust in the industry among actors who work in video games and that it is a step forward for all performers.

“I think what’s really important about this agreement is the fact that it provides protection for all performers at all levels in the industry,” he said. “And the fact is a lot of times performers who may not be famous names really need that protection even more, because their bargaining leverage to negotiate those kinds of things individually isn’t as great.”

As for the voices of performers who are no longer alive, Crabtree-Ireland said, posthumous deals are possible with the consent of whomever the estate has designated to act on a deceased performer’s behalf.

Shreyas Nivas, the CEO of Replica Studios, said in a statement that the company is excited to open new opportunities for video game studios that can now access Replica’s AI voice technology without worrying about crossing ethical boundaries.